
NAME: Pressure Biosciences
CID: 0000830656

Sep 28, 2005

Showing at Edgewater Conference.

I really don't have a clue about biotech.  This company looks a little
worse than the average.  What's up with the tanking revenues?

Nov 21, 2005

Steve asked me to look at it again.  I don't see anything new.

Dec 8, 2005

Steve keeps telling me this is a good deal so I'm looking at it again.
From Steve's description, the main product of the company is an
automated mortar and pestel type machine that is more consistent than
doing it by hand.  There is also a razor/blades argument since the
machine needs some type of cartridge in order to operate.

Low executive pay--good sign.

Diluted shares from 10Q: 2537987
MC @ 4.95 = 12.6M

Market cap is very low.  If the company could sell anything the stock
would be in good shape.

From 10Q:

Barocycler is the main product that was released in 2002.  PULSE tubes
are the disposable part of the device.  A smaller, less expensive
version of the Barocycler was released.

The company has failed to sell this product for 3 years.  Some of the
reasons from the 10Q:
 
  We believe that sales of our pressure cycling technology products
  have been adversely affected primarily as a result of the following
  factors:

  (1) the initial design and selling price of the Barocycler,

  (2) the limited amount of research data available demonstrating its
  capabilities and potential,

  (3) the absence of a strong sales and marketing management team,

  (4) the absence of a strong promotional campaign after the
  commercial release of the Barocycler NEP 2017,

  (5) the inability to execute our sales plan as a result of financial
  constraints prior to 2005,

  (6) current US economic conditions and uncertainties which
  negatively affected capital spending on laboratory instruments,

  (7) the financial condition of our company during 2003 and 2004,

  (8) the focus of our resources on other projects, including the sale
  of our BBI Diagnostics, BBI Biotech, and selected assets and
  liabilities of our laboratory instrumentation business units, a
  process that began in October 2002 and was completed in September
  2004,

  (9) the time required to complete post-transaction issues related to
  the sale of BBI Diagnostics and BBI Biotech, and

  (10) the effort required during 2005 to restructure the Company
  including the effort to build a new corporate infrastructure."

The company feels that sales, marketing, and customer education are
the big limiting factors.  It is working with resellers as well as
loaning 12 the units to potential customers.  Trial resulted in one
sale so far.

Why is there no sales information on the home page?  I can't even find
a price for one of the units.

Press release came out today regarding exclusive distribution
agreement with a Japanese company.  They bought two units for
demonstration purposes.  A quote from the reseller:

  "We are very impressed with PBI's PCT SPS, believe that it is the
  best system available for sample preparation, and believe that we
  will be very successful in placing multiple instruments in the
  Japanese market."

What kind of numbers are we talking about?  What do they earn per unit
and what is the range of product we would expect to sell in the next
year?  What have they sold in the past?  The 10Q claims to have $250M
of finished goods in their inventory.  Is that retail cost?

Talked with Steve.  Current product is $25K per unit.  He's not sure
if that is the low or high end unit.  Sell 2-400 disposable per
product per month.  Margins on units are unknown but disposables have
50% margins.

Dec 9, 2005

Talked to Steve again.  Inventory reported in a 10Q is cost of goods
plus labor, not retail value.  The margins on the disposable is higher
than Steve had earlier thought.  Closer to 5x or 10x cost.

TRADE buy 1000@4.6 balance 1000 commission 7.95

Dec 13, 2005

Steve talked with management today.

Company has $2.50 share in cash; $1.98 for some other stock they own: PANC.  This  almost adds up to  the price of the stock.

Units sell for $30K per piece.  20-30% gross margin, installed base of 12 units.  Gross margins on disposables is 60%.  FDA installed one of these.  The sealed tube increases safety of the product.  Japan is a leader in using pressure in a lot of areas.

1K units could generate $20-25M gross for disposables.

TRADE buy 1000@4.4 balance 2000 commission 7.95

In an attempt to find customer opinions, I searched for both products on the web and found a few references.

http://glycome.unh.edu/csb/instrumentation/instrumentation.htm

One of the units appears to be on loan at the University of New Hampshire.  They list it with much of their lab equipment as an enticement to prospective students.  There is no real endorsement of the product, just a catalog listing.

http://unhinfo.unh.edu/news/news_releases/2003/october/sk_20031023newtech.html

Schumacker (PBIO CEO) presented an "award" to to Heidi Geisner for using the device that PBIO had loaned to the university.  There's nothing really dishonest about this, but it does feel shmoozy.  The best comment from Heisner is:

“We've really appreciated being able to use PCT and the Barocycler,” said Geiser, whose project was published in the Society for Glycobiology's journal, Glycobiology. “It has allowed us to extract molecules in greater quantities than before, and to discover potentially new glycoproteins—using PCT has become our standard procedure.”

http://www.biochemj.org/bj/382/0995/bj3820995.htm

The above is a biomedical journal paper.  It is way above my head but they mention using a NEP2017 for the experiment.  They don't judge the machine as good or bad, but rather just mention their process for the sake of reproducability.

http://www.fda.gov/cber/minutes/wnv110402.htm

The above is a presentation by the FDA on some specific aspect of the West Nile Virus.  Their analysis required the use of a NEP2017 and they mention it's use--again I assume for reproducability.  No raving endorcements, but I suppose I shouldn't expect them in a research paper.

Nothing conclusive or inconclusive.  I would love to have a bunch of positive customer testimonials.

Dec 22, 2005

Resignation of the Company's Vice President - Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Treasurer.  I'm not sure what to read into these insider moves.

Mar 21, 2006

Sold one unit to the FBI.  Hopefully this will result in more sales.

Jun 23, 2006

Steve talk with PBIO this morning.  Just starting a larger production run of 25 that will be out in the field.

Oct 2, 2006

TRADE sell 2000@3.3513 balance 0 commission 8.20

Apr 15, 2024

Still in business!

They weren't able to file the 10K for dec 2023 so maybe they're in trouble. We only have the previous three quarters of data. They've got serious negative equity and have been losing money for a number of years. MC is just $10M. It looks like I caught them just before they died.

